we've talked some about the neuroscience
of gaming we've talked some about
emotions we've talked to about a couple
of introductory topics around gaming and
what I'd like to talk about now is how
you start actually getting control of
your gaming and how it is that you can
activate your motivation you can
overcome some of that laziness you can
sort of get your emotions in line
there's some concrete things that you
can do to get control of your gaming and
the first of those is to understand that
you can't overcome an addiction without
a competing interest if we think a
little bit about so I mostly work with
people who have problems with other
addictions like alcohol or opiates or
things like xanax or marijuana and for a
lot of them the the substance that they
use serves a very important purpose in
their life it helps them manage stress
it helps them kind of decompress a
little bit it helps them manage their
negative emotions and it's really hard
to just get them to quit it's not enough
to tell someone hey you know you're
gonna if you keep on drinking you're
gonna get liver cancer and you'll die
early or you'll have an increased risk
of heart disease in order to really get
them to stop drinking and this is
especially true actually less of Meral I
mean alcohol but the most true of
marijuana you have to help them develop
a competing interest and so what I mean
by that is let's take an example of
someone who smokes marijuana that person
is gonna be smoking and they feel like
marijuana helps them deal with their
anxiety it makes them feel like they're
themselves for the first time like
they're not so much in their head and it
makes them feel really good and so for
something that's so awesome like
something that makes you feel
comfortable
it's really hard to just give that up
and so in order to help that person give
that up what we have to work on is
finding what I call a competing interest
so I'd like to tell you guys kind of a
random story so when I was studying
Public Health I heard a really
interesting story about a real estate
development project in New York and this
was kind of in in the Upper West Side of
New York like 30 or 40 years ago there
was
real estate developer that wanted to
come in and sort of buy up a bunch of
property and then turn it into like a
high-rise and so the people who lived in
that community didn't want that real
estate developer to come in and buy that
property and so what they did is they
went to these town council meetings and
stuff and they protested and they said
we don't want that real estate developer
to develop this land we don't want it to
happen we don't want it to happen we
don't want it to happen and despite all
of their protests the real estate
development started moving forward and
then finally one guy came up with the
idea or a girl I think actually it was a
woman but one person came up with the
idea that instead of saying no to the
real estate development what they
started doing is saying we actually want
a part instead instead of actually
opposing the real estate development
what they did is create some competition
and they said we want to devote this
area of our part of New York City to
building a park and something magical
happened when they started advocating
for a park instead of trying to block
the real estate development the more
that they advocated for the park it
seemed to get traction and other people
in the community were like wow wouldn't
it be awesome to have a park here
instead of a high-rise and they were
able to get a lot more support for it
and ended up blocking the real estate
development and building a park instead
and so if we look at that story I mean
it sounds like it's completely unrelated
but I think it speaks to this basic
human psychology that in order to to
block something you actually have to
replace it you can't just stop it and so
for gamers the first thing that you guys
need to do is come up with a competing
interest so you have to have a reason to
not game and I would argue that most of
you guys when I ask you guys do you want
to stop gaming you'll say yes I want to
stop gaming and I'll ask you why do you
want to stop gaming and you'll say well
because I need to get a job or because I
I need to move out of the house or
because I'm not moving forward in life
and all of those things are true but
they're not really a competing interest
getting a job in being financially
independent or just things that you want
you don't actually care about them they
don't drive you to do things they don't
affect your behavior
they're just desires
and desires and motivators are actually
different things a competing interest is
something that you actually care about
it's like earlier when I was talking
about the guy who's smoking if I want
him to stop smoking I can't tell him
about lung cancer so if I have a guy
who's smoking and I try to get him to
quit smoking I say oh if you smoke
you're gonna get heart disease you're
gonna die of a heart attack you're gonna
die of a stroke you're gonna get lung
cancer you're gonna be wheeling around
an oxygen tank you're not gonna be able
to breathe you're not gonna be able to
climb stairs and all of those things are
absolutely true and he doesn't want any
of those things to happen but none of
that information actually changes his
behavior he doesn't actually stop
smoking irrespective of how much he
wants to avoid lung cancer what gets
that person to change is actually
something that they care about a real
competing interest what I what I'd ask
that person is do you ever want to see
your daughter get married do you want to
ever meet your grandkids do you want to
see your grandkids go to college those
are things that that person cares about
and those are things that are competing
interests and when you develop a
competing interest that helps you
actually fight against the gaming
addiction because then you have
something that actually gets lost if you
choose to continue gaming you have a
real cost to gaming whereas right now
you don't really have a cost to gaming
sure you don't move forward in life but
tomorrow is not gonna be any different
you're not gonna be out on the street if
you play video games all day today
you're not gonna die of hunger tomorrow
if you play video games all day you're
not gonna die alone if you play video
games all day now you will die alone if
you play video games for the rest of
your life but for tomorrow there's
actually no cost to playing video games
all day and you guys really have to
understand that that in order for you to
stop gaming there has to be a cost today
there has to be something that you lose
today by gaming today and developing
understanding that requires you to
develop a competing interest and once
you develop a competing interest then
you actually have skin in the game you
you put your you've kind of gone all-in
you're putting chips on the table
you're actually betting something you
have something to lose and the
interesting thing is that once you have
something to lose that's gonna change
your behavior automatically if I were to
tell you if you play video games
tomorrow I'm gonna shoot you in the face
and here's a handgun you're not gonna
play video games tomorrow you're just
not going to do it because it actually
has a cost if I tell you here's $1,000
if you play World of Warcraft tomorrow
I'm not going to give it to you
but if you don't play World of Warcraft
tomorrow I will give it to you that
person is not going to play World of
Warcraft because there's a tangible cost
there is a competing interest there's
something that they actually gain by not
gaming in the subtle problem that gamers
face is that they think they have a
competing interest because what they
root but what they really have is
desires they have a desire they're like
yeah I want to be rich that's like I
want to be rich to like everyone on the
street wants to be rich it doesn't
actually cause them to change their
behavior so if you actually want to get
control over your gaming the first thing
you need to do is develop a competing
interest and we'll take a short break
but when we get back we'll talk a little
bit about how to go about doing that